# Big O

- Big O is a way of comparing two sets of code. Comparing codes mathematically about how efficient they run.
- In a coding interview, you will absolutely be asked questions about big O.
- Let's say we have a stopwatch and we run code one, and we start the stopwatch, and it runs for 15 seconds, and we reset the stopwatch, and we run code two, and code two runs a lot longer than 15 seconds. It runs for a full minute. Based on this, you would say that code one is better than code two. You can measure it. This is called **[*Time Complexity*](https://www.notion.so/Big-O-ceaf7ea66cc7408cbceab08e22b47b3c?pvs=21).** The thing about time complexity that is interesting is that it is not measured in time.  It is measured in the number of operations that it takes to complete something.
- In addition to time complexity, we measure ***[Space Complexity](https://www.notion.so/Big-O-ceaf7ea66cc7408cbceab08e22b47b3c?pvs=21)*.**  So let's say that code one. While it runs very fast comparatively, let's say it takes up a lot of memory when it runs. And maybe code two, even though that takes much longer to finish. Maybe it takes up less memory. If preserving memory space is your most important priority and you don't mind having some extra time complexity, maybe code two is better.
- You have to understand both concepts and be able to address that in the job interview. But for the most part in this class we will be dealing. But for the most part in this class we will be dealing.
- Big O must be a strait line.
- O(1) It is the most efficient big O. If you can do something in O of one time, it is always going to be much more efficient than anything else.
- O(Log n) It's not as efficient as O of one, of course, but it is the next best thing. 
