# Classes & Pointers

## Classes

Maybe you can think of a class like a cookie cutter. A cookie cutter is not a cookie. But you can create cookies with it.

And the constructor method always has the name of the class.
We use the new keyword, and the new keyword means we're going to run the constructor. We're going to pass the constructor the color green.

public class Cookie {
    private String color;
    public Cookie(String color) {
        this. color = color;
    ｝
}

Cookie cookieOne = new Cookie ("green");
Cookie cookieTwo = new Cookie ("blue");

So in addition to our constructor method, we can create other methods.
It just returns the color for a particular instance of cookie. It just returns the color for a particular instance of cookie.

Then we'll also have another method that we'll call Setcolor. With this one, we're going to pass it a color and it will change the color of a particular cookie.

Cookie class:
package misc. classes;

public class Cookie {

    private String color;

    public Cookie (String color) {
        this.color = color;
    }

    public String getColor () {
        return color;
    }

    public void setColor (String color) {
        this. color = color;
    }

}

Main class:
package misc. classes;

public class Main{

    public static void main (Stringll args) {

        Cookie cookieOne = new Cookie ( color: "green");
        Cookie cookieTwo = new Cookie ( color: "blue");

        cookieOne.setColor("yellow");

        System. out.println(cookieOne.getColor());
        System. out. println (cookieTwo.getColor());

    }

}

Now how will we use classes in the course?
Let's say we have a data structure, a linked list, and to create a linked list we'll need a constructor. But we'll want to do other things with the linked list as well, like append an item to the end of the  linked list. Maybe we want to remove the last item, or prepend an item, or insert an item somewhere in the middle,or remove an item.

This is the kind of structure right here that we're going to use for every single one of our data structures.

public class LinkedList {
    public LinkedList(int value) {...}

    public void append (int value) {...}

    public Node removeLast () {...}

    public void prepend (int value) {...}

    public boolean insert(int index, int value) {...}

    public Node remove (int index) {...}

}

## Pointers

So to explain this we are going to start with something that is not a pointer and then compare it to something that uses a pointer.

package misc.pointers;

public class Main{

    public static void main (Stringll args){

        int num1 = 11;
        int num2 = num1;

        num1 = 22;

        System. out.println("num1:" + num1);
        System.out. println("num2: " + num2);

        ｝

}

And you can see up here that Num1 and Num2 are both 11. But what we are going to do is I'm going to add in another line of code right here. Where we're going to change num one to be 22. When we run this, NUM one changes to 22, but num two is still 11. This is how it works when you're not working with a pointer.

So when we say that num2 is equal to num one, it doesn't mean that they're going to remain equal forever. It's only at the time that we're initializing num two. If we change num one later, these two numbers are independent of each other. This is what happens when you are not using a pointer.

So now let's compare this to something where we do use a pointer. And we'll set it equal to this hash map. So we're going to say value equals 11. When we do this with a hash map we are saying that map one points to this hash map. So if we say that map two is equal to map one. If we were going to do this the same way that we did with Num1 and Num2, which were integers, we would say that map two points to an identical hash map. But that is not what happens when we say that map two is equal to map one. We are literally saying that map two points to the exact same hash map in memory.

package misc.pointers;
import java.util.HashMap;

public class Main{

    public static void main (String[] args) {

        HashMap<String, Integer> mapl = new HashMap<>();
        HashMap<String, Integer> map2 = new HashMap<>();

        map1. put ("value", 11);
        map2 = map1;

        map1.put ("value",22);

        System. out. println (map1);
        System. out. println (map2);
    ｝
｝

When we run this, we can see that they both have a value of 11. You can see up here that both map one and map two have changed. That's because they're pointing to the same hash map. So if you change that hash map. Both of these are going to change.

Let's say we have another hash map called map three. We can say map two equals map three, and you can redirect the pointers and have them both point to the same one. And then the other thing I want to show about pointers is this. If we did this again map one equals map two. Obviously it's going to point map one down to this hash map. And now all three of them are pointing 57.

But what happens to this hash map? We now don't have anything pointing to it. And if you don't have anything pointing to something like this, you don't have any way of getting to it. So it is taking up space in memory. But because you can't get to it, it's not of any use. So what Java is going to do with items like this is it will periodically go through and clean them up with a process called garbage collection.
