# Linked List

## main.java

package datastructures. linkedlist;

public class Main {

    public static void main (Stringll args) {

        LinkedList myLinkedList = new LinkedList( value: 4);
    }
}

## linkedlist.java

package datastructures.linkedlist;

public class LinkedList{

    private Node head;
    private Node tail;
    private int length;

    class Node{ # Nested, Inner Class
        '''
        So the reason we don't have anything in the node class here marked as public or private, is because if I later want to put this in its own class file inside of the linked list package, this is exactly how this would need to be written from a permissions standpoint, for it to be broken out into its own file.'''
        int value;
        Node next;

        Node (int value){
            this. value = value;
        }
    }

    public LinkedList(int value){
        Node newNode = new Node (value);
        head = newNode;
        tail = newNode;
        length = 1;
    }
}

## Coding Exersize

LL: Constructor

Understand the Node Structure:

Before writing the constructor, ensure you're familiar with the Node class, which is a nested class within the LinkedList class. Each Node should hold an integer value and a reference to the next node (Node next). For the initial node, next will be null.

Constructor Signature:

Your constructor should be public and named LinkedList. It will accept a single integer argument, value, which represents the data to store in the list's first node.

Create the First Node:

Inside the constructor, use the passed value to create a new instance of the Node class. This instance will be the first and only node in your linked list upon creation.

Initialize Head and Tail:

Assign the newly created node to both the head and tail of the linked list. This is because, initially, the list contains only one node, making it both the beginning and end of the list.

Set the List Length:

Initialize the length of the linked list to 1, reflecting that the list currently contains a single node.

